---
categories:
- fields
date: 2015-08-27T15:28:19Z
order: 1
title: Introduction to Custom Fields
url: /core/fields/introduction/
---

Creating Custom Fields in Cuisine is very easy. It's a way to add new data to a post or to the options table. And when you're doing it in code, it means you can add it to version-control, which is the sole reason we created the field-engine in Cuisine. 

The Field-class is available through [Cuisine's Wrapper System](/core/getting-started/structure.html), so you can start using it by adding

`use Cuisine\Wrappers\Field`

to the top of your php-document.

---

## Available attributes

All fields have a name, a label and a type. The most basic form of creating a new instance of the Field class needs all three of these attributes:

{{< highlight php  >}}

	$type = 'text';
	$name = 'your_name';
	$label = 'Your Label';

	$field = Field::$type( $name, $label );

{{< / highlight >}}

This field will end up getting posted as a regular text-field under the name 'your_name'. 
Other attributes will be stored in the **$properties** array of each field. You can retrieve properties with a simple function call:

{{< highlight php  >}}

	$field = Field::$type( $name, $label );
	$placeholder = $field->getProperty( 'placeholder' );
	
{{< / highlight >}}

This function call will return false, since we've never set the placeholder to begin with. But you can pass an array of properties to each field. We dive a little deeper into this on the [Using Custom Fields](/core/fields/using-fields.html) page.

---

## Available methods

All fields share a common class which lays out the defaults. It's located in /Classes/Fields/01-DefaultField.php in Cuisine and has the following public methods:

<br/>

###Get & Set methods:
Alter a fields properties with these fields

>###getValue();
>Get the value of this field. The value depends on a few factors: it will check of the value is saved to the current post (if there is a current post) using the fields name, otherwise it will default to the 'defaultValue' attribute. If the 'defaultValue' attribute isn't set it will return false, like the **get_field()** function in Advanced Custom Fields.

> {{< highlight php  >}}
 
	Field::text( 'my-field', 'My Field' )->getValue();
/*
 * This first tries to return the value for get_post_meta( $post->ID, 'my-field', true );
 * If that's not set it will return self::getDefault();
 * If that also fails, it will return false.
 */
{{< / highlight >}}
>
><br/>
>
>###getDefault();
>Returns the 'defaultValue' property if it's set. Otherwise it will return false.
> {{< highlight php  >}}
 
	Field::text( 'my-field', 'My Field' )->getValue();
/*
 * Returns self::getProperty( 'defaultValue' ) if it's set.
 * If that fails, it will return false.
 */
{{< / highlight >}}
>
><br/>
>
>###setName( $value );
>Sets the name variable for this field after the field has been created.
> {{< highlight php  >}}
 
	$field = Field::text( 'my-field', 'My Field' );
$field->setName( 'my-other-field' );
echo $field->name //returns 'my-other-field'.

{{< / highlight >}}

<br/>

###Build methods:
These methods either return or straight-up echo the HTML for a field:

>####build();
> The build function returns the html of just the input-element(s). It doesn't get you a wrapper or a label.
> 
> {{< highlight php  >}}
 
	Field::text( 'my-field', 'My Field' )->build();
//returns:
'<input type="text" name="my-field" class="field input-field field-my-field type-text">';

{{< / highlight >}}
> 
> <br/>
> 
> 
> ####render();
> The render function echoes all the html for this field, including the wrapper, the label and custom classes.
> 
> {{< highlight php  >}}

	Field::text( 'my-field', 'My Field' )->render();
//echoes:
'<div class="field-wrapper text">
 
 		<label for="211b2e0ca31b24032d930f07c9a98aaa">My Field</label>
 		<input type="text" id="211b2e0ca31b24032d930f07c9a98aaa" class="field input-field field-my-field type-text" name="my-name">
 
</div>';
 
{{< / highlight >}}
> 
> <br/>
> 
> ####getLabel();
> Returns the html for the label of this field
> 
> {{< highlight php  >}}
 
	Field::text( 'my-field', 'My Field' )->render();
//returns:
'<label for="211b2e0ca31b24032d930f07c9a98aaa">My Field</label>';

{{< / highlight >}}


