---
categories:
- post-types-taxonomies
date: 2015-08-26T09:34:42Z
order: 3
title: Routing
url: /core/post-types-taxonomies/routing/
---

Routing in Cuisine can have two meanings: 

* Routing a post type to a certain URL
* Routing a post type to a certain template

On this page we'll be looking into routing to a URL. If you're looking to route your post type to a certain template-file [check out the page on templating](/core/post-types-taxonomies/templating).

<br/>

The Route-class is available through [Cuisine's Wrapper System](/core/getting-started/structure), so you can start using it by adding

`use Cuisine\Wrappers\Route`

to the top of your php-document.

---

### Routing to a URL

Routing post types to urls is done by using the WordPress Rewrite system. Which is, again, needlessly complex. Cuisine really simplifies this. Routing always works with two url-routes for a post type. One for the archive or overview and one for the single post type page. 

So, following our example of [the project-post type](/core/post-types-taxonomies/creating-post-types), we'll create a route for our post type **project**. We'll want the overview page to be named __/our-work__ and an single project can route to __/project/project-name__.

<br/>

{{< highlight php  >}}

Route::url( 'project', 'our-work', 'project' );

{{< / highlight >}}

<br/>

That's it. Here's the breakdown for the example above:

>The parameters passed down to the make-function are, in order of appearence:
>
>*  **post type slug**
>   The slug of the post-type we're tying this taxonomy to. This can be an array of post-type slugs as well.
>
>*  **overview slug**
>   The url we want to use for our overview or archive page.
>
>*  **singular slug**
>   The prefix to the url we want to use for our singular pages.
