---
categories:
- utilities
date: 2015-08-26T09:36:45Z
order: 2
title: Sorting
url: /core/utilities/sorting/
---

Sorting is something we all need to do from time to time. Since there aren't any really good options for the functions listed below, we decided to make it into a Cuisine Class.

The Sort class is a Utility which basically means you can address all methods as static functions, without using a wrapper of Facade. To use the Sort class, include the class and namespace at the top of your php document:

`use Cuisine\Utilities\Sort`w

---

##Sorting by Field

If you have an nested array of other arrays or objects, you can sort that array with this function on a certain field available in all of the sub-arrays.

Here's an example:

{{< highlight php  >}}

$fruit = array(

	array(
		'name'		=>	'Apple',
		'country'	=>	'France',
		'harvest'	=>	'5-5-2016'
	),
	array(
		'name'		=>	'Pear',
		'country'	=>	'France',
		'harvest'	=>	'27-3-2016'
	),
	array(
		'name'		=> 	'Strawberries',
		'country'	=>	'The Netherlands',
		'harvest'	=>	'2-6-2016'
	),
	array(
		'name'		=>	'Peaches',
		'country'	=>	'Italy',
		'harvest'	=>	'14-9-2-16'
	)
);

Sort::byField( $fruit, 'harvest', 'ASC' );

{{< / highlight >}}
<br/>

The example above lists an array of fruit with which we'll be doing all our examples. It then calls **Sort::byField()** on the **$fruit**-array and tells the function to use the **harvest** key and sort everything in an ascending matter.

Let's break it down:
>**Sort::byField()** sorts an array of arrays by a field.<br/><br/>
>
>The parameters passed down to the byField are, in order of appearence:
>
>*  **Data**
>   The array of arrays you'd wish to sort.
>
>*  **Field**
>   The key of the field you'd wish to sort on
>
>*  **Order** (optional)
>   The order to sort on. Can be 'DESC' or 'ASC', defaults to 'ASC'
>


---

##Plucking

Plucking an array fetches certain fields from a multi-dimensional array and puts them in a new array. So, working with the **$fruit** array mentioned above, the following code would be a good example of plucking:


{{< highlight php  >}}

Sort::pluck( $fruit, 'name' );
//returns array( 'Apple', 'Pear', 'Strawberries', 'Peaches' );

{{< / highlight >}}


Here is a break it down:
>**Sort::pluck()** Accepts an array, and returns an array of values from that array as specified by $field..<br/><br/>
>
>The parameters passed down to the pluck are, in order of appearence:
>
>*  **Data**
>   The array of arrays you'd wish to pluck.
>
>*  **Field**
>   The key of the field you'd wish to pluck on
>
>*  **Preserve keys - boolean** (optional)
>   Whether or not to preserve the array keys. Defaults to true
>
>*  **Remove no matches - boolean** (optional)
>   If the field doesn't appear to be set, remove it from the output-array.
>	Defaults to true
>

