---
categories:
- utilities
date: 2015-08-26T09:36:51Z
order: 8
title: User
url: /core/utilities/user/
---

The User Class in Cuisine is just an easier version of the functions already available in WordPress. It only concerns the current logged in user.

The User-class is available through [Cuisine's Wrapper System](/core/getting-started/structure), so you can start using it by adding

> **use Cuisine\Wrappers\User**

to the top of your php-document.

---

## Getting user info

WordPress handles User information in a variety of differently styled and named functions. We bring 'em together in this class.

Here are some examples:

{{< highlight php  >}}

User::get( 'ID' ); // -> returns the current user ID
User::get( 'display-name' ); // -> returns the current user's display name
User::get( 'twitter-name' ); // -> returns user meta called "twitter-name"  


{{< / highlight >}}
<br/>
The **User::get()** function can get anything from the current User as long as it's available as regular user-data (like e-mail and username) or user-meta (like 'first_name' ).


---

## Roles

Checking wether or not a user can do certain tasks is critical for your security. In Cuisine we have two functions in the User class to deal with roles:

{{< highlight php  >}}

//capabilities:
User::can( 'edit-options' ); //-> checks if this user has the capability to 'edit-options'

User::may( 'edit-options'); //-> adds the 'edit-options' capability to this user

//roles:
User::hasRole( 'editor' ); //-> checks if this user has the role of editor

User::setRole( 'editor' ); //-> give this user editor-powers.

{{< / highlight >}}
<br/>
With these two functions you can easily manage all roles the current user may need.


---

## Capabilities

Adding or removing capabilities is a bit troublesome in WordPress. In Cuisine we've added three functions to handle all of this:

{{< highlight php  >}}

//capabilities:
User::can( 'edit-options' ); //-> checks if this user has the capability to 'edit-options'

User::allowedTo( 'edit-options'); //-> adds the 'edit-options' capability to this user

User::notAllowedTo( 'edit-options' ); //-> invoke the capability 'edit-options' for this user

{{< / highlight >}}
<br/>
