---
categories:
- utilities
date: 2015-08-26T09:36:30Z
order: 5
title: Date
url: /core/utilities/date/
---

Dates in WordPress are scattered across multiple functions. And while the regular php date functions are pretty good, WordPress one-ups these functions my offering them in multiple languages, so all of Cuisine's date functions use native WordPress functions, but just structure them a bit better.

The Date class is a Utility which basically means you can address all methods as static functions, without using a wrapper of Facade. To use the Date class, include the class and namespace at the top of your php document:

> **use Cuisine\Utilities\Date**

---

## Getting a date in the language WordPress is set in

To get a date in the format you'd like and in the same language as WordPress is set in, you can just use this:

{{< highlight php  >}}

Date::get( '5-6-2016', 'j F, Y' );

{{< / highlight >}}
<br/>
Here's a break-down:
>**Date::get()** takes a string or timestamp and returns it in the format of your choice.<br/><br/>
>
>The parameters passed down to the get-function are, in order of appearence:
>
>*  **Date** (optional)
>   This can be a string or a timestamp. Defaults to the currents post-date
>
>*  **Format** (optional)
>   Use regular [WordPress date formats](https://codex.wordpress.org/Formatting_Date_and_Time) for this. Defaults to 'j F Y'. 
>

---

## Relative dates

Relative dates in Cuisine are very easy. All you need is a date and time which you want to get relative.

{{< highlight php  >}}

Date::relative( '5-6-2016' );

{{< / highlight >}}
<br/>
The function up above returns a string with relative date.
<br/><br/>


