---
categories:
- utilities
date: 2016-06-05T11:15:22Z
order: 5
title: Logger
url: /core/utilities/logger/
---

WordPress doesn't have a propper logger function, so we created one. The logger is available through [Cuisine's utility system](/core/getting-started/structure#utilities) by using the following class:

`use Cuisine\Utilties\Logger`

---

## Logging
Obviously the logging class is there to log messages. There are two kinds of messages in cuisine: errors and regular messages.

#### Logging errors
Logging errors if fairly simple:
```php
Logger::error( 'Ohw no, something went wrong!' ); 
```
Logging errors will always come with a stack-trace of functions previously called. How big this stack trace is depends on the log level you set:
<br/>

#### Setting the log level
The log level is detirment by a constant:<ins>CUISINE_LOGLEVEL</ins>
The possible values of this are represented in a <ins>Cuisine\Utilities\LogLevel</ins> class. The LogLevel states are represented by integers. 
Here's an example:

```php
use Cuisine\Utilities\LogLevel;
echo LogLevel::FUNCTIONNAMES;// returns 1. Only show involved function names
echo LogLevel::CLASSNAMES;// returns 2. Also show class names
echo LogLevel::FULL;// returns 3. Displays the full stack trace.
```
The default LogLevel is 1 (function names).

---

## Logging messages
```php
Logger::message( 'Here\'s a message from the logger class' );
```
Before messages show up in our actual log we need to set a constant, which isn't defined by default. Set the <ins>CUISINE_LOG_MESSAGES</ins> constant to <ins>true</ins> to make sure messages get logged. 

---

## The log file

The default log file that will get written when using the Logger is

`PATH_TO_SITE/wp_content/logs/cuisine.log`

If you wish to change that you can use two filters:


#### Changing the path
Changing the logger path can be done as followed:
```php
add_filter( 'cuisine_log_path', function( $path ){
    return WP_CONTENT_DIR . DIRECTORY_SEPERATOR . 'uploads' . DIRECTORY_SEPERATOR . 'logger'
});
```
Note that this path doesn't need a directory seperator at the end.
**Important notice:** please make sure this directory is writable by php. 

<br/>
#### Changing the filename
Changing the logger filename can be done like this:
```php
add_filter( 'cuisine_log_filename', function( $file ){
    return date('Y-m-d').'-'.$file; //add a date in front of your log.
});
```
In the example above the <ins>$file</ins> variable already has the '.log' extension added, but if you where to completely replace that, please note that you need to add the extension manually.

---

## Displaying messages and errors on the screen.

Both the <ins>Logger::error()</ins> and <ins>Logger::message()</ins> functions come with an aditional parameter. This will render the error or message on the screen (which can be handy for debugging on a local machine).

Here's an example:
```php
Logger::error( 'Something went wrong', true );
```
The second parameter ensures this error will be displayed by WordPress as wel as logged in our log-file. It's default value is false however.

#### Globally controlling wether or not errors & messages are displayed
Via another constant we can also control if all errors and messages will be displayed by WordPress as well as logged. Setting <ins>CUISINE_DISPLAY_LOG</ins> to true will ensure ALL errors and messages are displayed:

```php
define('CUISINE_DISPLAY_LOG', true );
```

